-As concerns grow
about the government's handling
of the coronavirus outbreak,
the president is calling
criticism of his response
a hoax.
For more on this, it's time
for "A Closer Look."
[ Suspenseful theme plays ]
[ Cheering and applause ]
This was yet another weekend
in our manic,
head-spinning political era
where major news stories were
breaking, one after another.
The Trump era has turned all
of us into cats trying
to follow on multiple laser
pointers at once.
[ Laughter ]
Stock market!
Democratic primary!
Eclipse!
[ Laughter ]
For one thing, Joe Biden won
a landslide victory in the
South Carolina primary
on Saturday and, as a result,
two of his rivals,
Pete Buttigieg
and Amy Klobuchar,
dropped out and announced
they would endorse Biden.
Meanwhile, the third candidate
who dropped out,
Tom Steyer, did it immediately
on election night,
one day after dancing onstage
during a rally
in South Carolina.
to Juvenile's
"Back That Azz Up."
[ Laughter and applause ]
I can guarantee that,
when Juvenile wrote that song,
that is not the ass
he had in mind.
[ Laughter and applause ]
I'm sorry,
but nobody wearing that tie
should ever dance like that.
[ Laughter ]
You look like a chaperone
at a prep school prom,
trying to get the nerds
onto the dance floor.
[ Laughter ]
In fact, the last few days
have been so jam-packed,
we don't even have time to talk
about the super weird fact that,
on Saturday, at the Conservative
Political Action Conference,
Trump not only hugged,
but also kissed,
[ Laughter ]
the American flag
while mouthing the words,
"I love you, baby."
[ Laughter ]
I mean, 'cause, believe me,
we could spend a whole
10 minutes on that.
I mean, seriously,
what is going on here?
[ Laughter ]
If Trump's not careful,
he's gonna have pay hush money
to Betsy Ross.
[ Laughter and applause ]
This is more intimate than
that Lady Gaga-Bradley Cooper
performance
[ Laughter ]
at last year's Oscars.
In fact, just to give you
an idea how much
was happening this weekend,
the president announced
that he had negotiated
a peace deal with the Taliban,
and that wasn't even one
of the top news stories.
On Saturday,
Trump held a press conference
to update the nation
on the coronavirus outbreak,
but he started by trying to draw
attention to the Taliban deal.
And, look, personally,
I am in favor
of any attempt
to end our longest war
and bring our troops home.
It's something we should've
done a long time ago.
But it would be nice to have
a president that we could trust
to coherently explain
the details to us.
And, yet, even when he tried
to start the press conference
by talking
about this Taliban deal,
all Trump could do
was ramble drowsily,
like he just woke up
from an afternoon nap.
-Before we begin, I'd like to
congratulate all
of those incredible people
that have worked for so long
on our endless war
[ Laughter ]
and will be
very much hoping that
they will be doing what they say
they're going to be doing.
[ Laughter ]
They will be killing terrorists.
They will be killing
some very bad people.
[ Laughter ]
And, again, it's been --
it's been a long journey,
in Afghanistan, in particular,
but this was a --
a...very...
uh, spirited
agreement.
[ Laughter ]
There was a lot of, uh,
a lotta talk.
Uh, I really believe the Taliban
wants to do something
to show that we're not
all wasting time.
-You're wasting time!
[ Laughter and applause ]
Just tell us what's in the deal.
I honestly expected
an award show orchestra
to start playing him off.
[ Laughter ]
-It will be --
[ Music sweeps ]
[ Applause ]
So, the original point
of Saturday's press conference
was supposed to be
to update Americans
on the coronavirus
and quell fears about the
government's bumbling response
because the administration
has not been doing a lot
to reassure Americans.
He put his vice president,
Mike Pence,
in charge of controlling
all coronavirus messaging
from health officials
and Trump himself
dismissed the danger at the
White House on Thursday.
-We have done an incredible job.
We're going to continue.
It's going to disappear
one day.
It's like miracle.
It will disappear.
And, from our shores,
you know, it could get worse
before it gets better.
Could maybe go away.
We'll see what happens.
Nobody really knows.
The fact is
the greatest experts,
I've spoken to them all.
Nobody really knows.
-Alright, first of all,
I doubt you've spoken
to all the greatest experts.
[ Laughter ]
I can't even begin
to imagine a conversation
between a scientist
and Donald Trump.
It would be
like watching Bill Gates
explain the Internet to a dog.
[ Laughter and applause ]
Second, it' not reassuring,
in the midst of a crisis,
to hear the most powerful man
in the world say
nobody knows what will happen.
It's like hearing
your captain say,
"We're goin'
through some turbulence.
We might make it
to our destination,
but nobody really knows.
If we do, it'll be a miracle."
[ Laughter ]
Just because you don't know
doesn't mean nobody knows.
Yes, there are unknowns,
but there are also experts
studying the situation right now
and learning things.
You should you maybe
check in with them.
Instead, the administration
has been busy
with other, less urgent, tasks.
Pence, the guy who's supposed
to be in charge of all this,
spent Friday
at a high-dollar fundraiser
for Republicans in Florida.
And, as for the president --
and this is real --
The Daily Beast reported that,
on Friday at the White House,
Trump spent 45 minutes talking
to the lead actors
of a low-budget
conservative play
about the so-called deep state.
Alright.
I have so many questions.
First of all, why is Trump
meeting with actors in a play?
[ Laughter ]
I doubt he's ever sat
through a play in his life.
He probably went
"Hairspray" by accident,
thinking it was a tutorial.
[ Laughter and applause ]
[as Trump] I need to learn how
to freeze my hair in place
so that it's fully
wind-resistant.
[ Applause and laughter ]
Although, I will say,
judging from this photo,
you'd think he was starring
in the Broadway adaptation
of "Beetlejuice."
[ Laughter and applause ]
So that's what the president
spending his time doing
while he should've been
monitoring developments
with the coronavirus
and coming up
with a reassuring
government response
and, now, he and his allies
are attacking Democrats
for supposedly
politicizing the crisis.
At this very moment, healthcare
professionals are warning
about the lack
of widespread accurate testing,
with one
infectious disease expert
calling it a national scandal
and, yet,
Trump and his allies have been
attacking Democrats in the media
simply for pointing out
these very real problems,
with Trump himself
even calling criticism
of his response to the outbreak
a hoax.
-They're now sadly politicizing
and actually weaponizing
an infectious disease
in what is basically just
the latest effort
to bludgeon President Trump.
-It looks like
the coronavirus
is being weaponized
as yet another element
to bring down Donald Trump.
-The reason you're paying --
you're seeing so much
attention to it today
is that they think
this is gonna be
what brings down the president.
-Now, the Democrats are
politicizing the coronavirus.
[ Booing ]
You know that, right?
Coronavirus.
They tried the impeachment hoax
and this is their new hoax.
-A hoax?
I think part of the problem here
is that Trump only knows
like five words
and hoax is one of them.
[ Laughter ]
His brain is like a Mad Lib
with the same word written in
for every sentence.
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
So, on Saturday, Trump tried
to defend his handling
of the crisis
and, in doing so,
he once again lied
about the speed of his
government's response.
-Since the early stages
of the foreign outbreak,
my administration has taken
the most aggressive action
in modern history to confront
the spread of this disease.
We moved very early.
Experts now agree
that the decision
to move so quickly,
despite a lot of opposition
on that decision,
was, uh, a wise one.
It greatly slowed
the spread of the virus
to the United States.
-No, you didn't move quickly.
For one thing,
you never move quickly.
You lumber around the
White House lawn in circles,
like an only child on
an Easter egg hunt by himself.
[ Laughter and applause ]
Second, there's new evidence
suggesting the virus may have
been spreading for weeks,
the problem worsened, in part,
by the fact that
we haven't had widespread
national testing,
which would make sense because,
when reports of the outbreak
first began to make news
around the world,
this is how
the president responded.
-The virus.
They're working hard.
Looks like, by April,
you know, in theory,
when it gets a little warmer,
it miraculously goes away.
I hope that's true.
The coronavirus,
that's a new thing
that a lot of people
are talking about.
Hopefully, it won't be
as bad as some people
think it could be.
And we think it's going to have
a very good ending for us.
Hopefully,
it's all gonna be great.
Maybe there's something new
'cause, for two days,
I haven't been seeing
too much of that news.
Now, the virus that we're
talking about having to do,
you know, a lot of people think
that goes away in April,
with the heat,
as the heat comes in.
[ Laughter ]
Typically, that will go
away in April.
We're in great shape, though.
-Where did you get this idea
that it goes away in April?
Are you confusing it with Lent?
[ Laughter and applause ]
[as Trump]
You know, it starts in February
and it usually
goes away in April,
but you have to give something
up to avoid catching it.
I'm giving up flag humping.
[ Laughter and applause ]
Yet, of course, of course,
somehow, the president
is not even
the dumbest Donald Trump
to weigh in on this story
because, in case you forgot,
there's a second Donald Trump
and he had this truly
disgusting thing
to say on Friday.
-Anything that they can use
to try to hurt Trump, they will.
For them to try to take
a pandemic and seemingly hope
that it comes here
and kills millions of people
so that they could end
Donald Trump's streak of winning
is a new level of sickness.
-Jesus!
Someone is desperately trying
to get their father
to love them.
[as Trump Jr]
I'm doing had so my father
will hug and kiss me
like that goddamn flag!
[ Laughter and applause ]
I'm sorry I don't have
stars and stripes, Dad!
[ Laughter and applause ]
Sorry!
This is --
This is the kind
of crisis management situation
where you want competent,
apolitical people in charge.
Instead, we have
an administration
that would rather spend its time
raising money,
meeting with the actors
in a right-wing play,
and cuddling
with American flags.
All we can do, for now,
is stay calm
and listen to the advice
of healthcare professionals and,
as for the Trump administration,
just hope that...
-It's going to disappear
one day.
It's like a miracle.
It will disappear.
[ Laughter ]
-This has been "A Closer Look."
♪♪
[ Cheering and applause ]